also with my steel in my left hand I can then
sharpen my knives I'm honing them on this steel
so the steel has some grit there's different types of steels this one is
sort of like a medium grip for me and that's
actually perfect for the type of knives that i'm
sharpening if I was doing something like a
japanese knife I might want to put that onto
something like a clay stone as opposed to using
a steel like this which could actually damage
the knife so when I'm sharpening what I tend to do
is I make sure that my thumb is directly under the
hilt of this where the handle is so if I'm coming
down I'm not going to hit myself I'm going to
make sure my hand it's sort of wrapped around the
actual handle there and I keep it on an angle so
it's coming up towards the right hand side to sort of
keep the steel away from me too, if I'm sharpening
my french knife what I want to do is I tend to put
my thumb directly on the top of that knife that
gives me the ability to create a rolling action
so I'm going to come down with a rolling action
one side and then the other you want to be doing
this on a on average we call it a 14 degree angle
once you get competent you can do it a
little bit quicker but in the beginning
there is no rush to do it quickly at all
and I'm rolling my wrist making sure that the tip of
that knife is not going down towards my left hand
another methodology you can use is just put your
steel down onto your board put the heel of your
knife against the steel you can sort of see the
angle that I'm coming out there at 14 degrees
and then draw the knife across the steel and
again it does not need to be quick but you want
to make sure you're coming from the heel of the
knife all the way through to the tip of the knife
same application if I'm using the boning knife i
like to keep my thumb just across the top of that
blade across the top of the knife so not the blade
itself so you won't get a sort of a rolling action
and again I'm going from the heel
of my knife to the tip of my knife
and I'm making sure I'm getting every single
part of that across the steel and again
you don't want to be coming down too quickly
towards your hand want to be nice and safe
with the sharpening of your knives